# didymos

## Introduction
One of the crucial parts in the implementation of a rational agent is its optimization for the conditions it should work in. The robot 'Didymos' (Greek transcription of the word 'twin'), programmed in Java, is an example of such an optimized agent. Constantly improved for Robocode battles in a team against a single enemy, our inspiration for the concept of "evil twins" were the examples commonly found in history and our modern pop culture. After the "Jekyll & Hyde" motive firstly published by Robert Louis Stevenson in 1886, evil twins nowadays "are basically captivating an evil reflection of our favorite characters, who usually look just like them but often have more sinister motives” (Samson, 2015). Even the history provides some examples of evil twins: According to Ma (2011), the “The Spahalski Brothers” were identical twins and both killers, but each acted alone and unaware of the other twin's murderous acts. Instead of this horrible and macabre "inspiration", the Robocode robots will highly collaborate in act of fighting.

## Strategies
Our Evil Twins are intelligent agents, whom will behave rationally and reasonably. Unlike its predecessor “Eureka”, the robot was a completely rewritten and simplified into a single file. Reasons for this was the experiences gained with the rather complex ancestor which performed quite unfavorable in contrast to the high amount of strategies implemented in it. In the current twins, there is no longer any kind of learning or further adaptation to the environment but instead of a precoded strategy described in the following. In a nutshell, Didymos may just rely on the unfair fact that the energy level of the overall team being three times as high in comparison with the single fighting standard robot. 

The actual movement strategy of the individual twin robots depends on the fact if it is leading or not. While both robots share the same code base, in some situations it is more efficient to resolve situations by using the current energy as the measurement of power to bias decision making in favor of the robot which may be the actual pillar of a victory. The leading twin according to this analysis will move as close to the enemy as possible, nevertheless avoiding any kind of collision resulting in an unnecessary loss of important energy. On the other hand, its partner will try to find the nearest right angle between the goal position of the other twin and the enemy, maintaining a bigger distance to the latter one. Due to the expected movement of the enemy, collisions between the twins may appear. It is therefore critical for the non-leading twin to avoid collision with the leader. Even if its expected outcome for such kind of "emergency stop" may be non-optimal and result in a longer time until the robot reaches its goal, this kind of self-sacrifice will help to improve the overall performance in battle. Following the same logic, in case of a failure in the avoidance, the follower robot will move away from the leader, too. By this behavior, the leading twin may continue shooting and taking its part in the victory. 

For the prediction of the movement of the enemy, an efficient radar strategy is crucial. In the current implementation, the radar constantly follows the enemy. Moreover, during the battle, there is a continuous communication between both twins in terms of the position and energy of the enemy and the position, energy and the goal of the other twin. This allows a suitable reaction even in the unlikely possibility of losing the targeted enemy. This will lead to a complete re-scan of the area, and on average over the enemy robot and know exactly where the goal of the other twin is.

The main component of the gun strategy is a surprisingly well working linear movement prediction. Due to the fact that only one enemy is present, the gun constantly aims at the most likely next position of the enemy robot. Afterwards, if 'Didymos' is nearby the enemy it will start shooting with the maximal possible energy. Due to the small distance, any advance strategies an enemy might use to fight its inferiority in terms of energy like bullet shielding are no longer possible; the time for reaction is simply too short. The right-angle positioning strategy of the twins guaranties maximal damage while friendly fire is avoided most of the time. Nevertheless, for the unlikely event of a situation a twin might right before the other one, further evaluation is performed before shooting.
